rework ViCare integration docs (#34040)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/vicare.markdown

The **Viessmann ViCare** {% term integration %} lets you control [Viessmann](https://www.viessmann.com) devices via the Viessmann ViCare (REST) API.
Most recent network-connected Viessmann heating devices (e.g., gas boilers) should be supported.

## Prerequisites

You will need to sign in on the [Viessmann developer portal](https://app.developer.viessmann.com/) with **your existing ViCare app user credentials**.

Create a new API client by selecting **Add** in the **Clients** section on the developer dashboard with the following settings:
   - Name: `HomeAssistant`
   - Google reCAPTCHA: `disabled`
   - Redirect URIs: `vicare://oauth-callback/everest`

Copy the **Client ID** in the **Clients** section on the developer dashboard for the setup in Home Assistant.

{% important %}

> Setup the {% term integration %} from your device (phone) where you have the ViCare app installed. Otherwise your device does not know how to handle the `vicare://` redirect URL and you will receive an **Invalid credentials** notification and the setup procedure will fail.

Author: ```suggestion
You have to setup the {% term integration %} from your device (phone) where you have the ViCare app installed. Otherwise, your device does not know how to handle the `vicare://` redirect URL, and you will receive an **Invalid credentials** notification and the setup procedure will fail.
```

> Important: Setup the {% term integration %} from your device (phone) where you have the ViCare app installed. Otherwise your device does not know how to handle the `vicare://` redirect URL and you will receive an **Invalid credentials** notification and the setup procedure will fail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Important: Setup the {% term integration %} from your device (phone) where you have the ViCare app installed. Otherwise, your device does not know how to handle the `vicare://` redirect URL, and you will receive an **Invalid credentials** notification, and the setup procedure will fail.
```

{% endnote %}

{% note %}

> It may take up to an hour till your new client is active and usable. Otherwise you will not get any devices in Home Assistant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It may take up to an hour for your new client to become active and usable. Otherwise, you will not receive any devices in Home Assistant.
```

{% endnote %}

### API limits

> The Viessmann API is rate-limited. If you exceed one of the limits below you will be blocked for 24 hours:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Viessmann API is rate-limited. If you exceed one of the limits below, you will be blocked for 24 hours:
```

- Limit 1: 120 calls for a time window of 10 minutes
- Limit 2: 1450 calls for a time window of 24 hours

> The {% term integration %} polls the API every 60 seconds and will work within these limits. However any additional requests to the API, e.g. by setting the temperature via the integration but also by interacting with the ViCare app, counts into those limits.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The {% term integration %} polls the API every 60 seconds and will work within these limits. However, any additional requests to the API, for example, by setting the temperature via the integration but also by interacting with the ViCare app, count into those limits.
```

{% note %}

> If you have multiple Viessmann devices in Home Assistant the limit is shared between them, meaning the poll interval is increased and the values are less frequently updated!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have multiple Viessmann devices in Home Assistant, the limit is shared between them, meaning the poll interval is increased and the values are less frequently updated!
```

{% endnote %}

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

## Entities

ViCare represents devices as a set of [data points](https://documentation.viessmann.com/static/iot/data-points) and the ViCare {% term integration %} maps those to {% term entity entities %} of different {% term platform platforms %} in Home Assistant. A single device may be represented by one or more platforms.

### Climate

Represents the heating controls of your device.

{% note %}
Viessmann devices with room temperature sensing will show the current room temperature via `current_temperature`. All other devices will show the current supply temperature of the heating circuit.
{% endnote %}

### Water heater

Represents the domestic hot water controls of your device.

> It is not possible to turn on/off water heating via the water heater {% term integration %} since this would conflict with the operation modes of the heating integration. Therefore the operation mode of that integration is just available as an attribute and cannot be modified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is not possible to turn on/off water heating via the water heater {% term integration %} since this would conflict with the operation modes of the heating integration. Therefore, the operation mode of that integration is just available as an attribute and cannot be modified.
```

> It is not possible to turn on/off water heating via the water heater {% term integration %} since this would conflict with the operation modes of the heating integration. Therefore, the operation mode of that integration is just available as an attribute and cannot be modified.

Author: ```suggestion
{% note %}
It is not possible to turn on/off water heating via the water heater {% term integration %} since this would conflict with the operation modes of the heating integration. Therefore, the operation mode of that integration is just available as an attribute and cannot be modified.
{% endnote %}
```

### Sensor

Additional data for a device is available as separate sensors. The sensors are automatically discovered based on the available API data points.

### Button

Button entities are available for triggering like a one-time charge of the water heater.

### Number

Number entities are available to adjust values like the predefined temperature for different heating programs or the heating curve shift and slope.

## Services

The following services of the [climate integration](/integrations/climate/) are provided by the ViCare integration: `set_temperature`, `set_hvac_mode`, `set_preset_mode` 

The following services of the [water_heater integration](/integrations/water_heater/) are provided by the ViCare integration: `set_temperature`

### Service `vicare.set_vicare_mode`

Set the mode for the climate device as defined by Viessmann (see [set_hvac_mode](#service-climateset_hvac_mode) for a mapping to Home Assistant Climate modes. This allows more-fine grained control of the heating modes.

| Service data attribute | Optional | Description |
| ---------------------- | -------- | ----------- |

> | `entity_id` | yes | String or list of strings that point at `entity_id`'s of climate devices to control. To target all entities, use `all` keyword instead of entity_id.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `entity_id` | yes | String or list of strings that point at `entity_id`'s of climate devices to control. To target all entities, use the `all` keyword instead of entity_id.
```

> | `vicare_mode` | no | New value of ViCare mode. For supported values see the `vicare_modes` attribute of the climate {% term entity %}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `vicare_mode` | no | New value of ViCare mode. For supported values, see the `vicare_modes` attribute of the climate {% term entity %}.
```

The **Viessmann ViCare** {% term integration %} lets you control [Viessmann](https://www.viessmann.com) devices via the Viessmann ViCare (REST) API.
Most recent network-connected Viessmann heating devices (e.g., gas boilers) should be supported.

## Prerequisites

You will need to sign in on the [Viessmann developer portal](https://app.developer.viessmann.com/) with **your existing ViCare app user credentials**.

Create a new API client by selecting **Add** in the **Clients** section on the developer dashboard with the following settings:
   - Name: `HomeAssistant`
   - Google reCAPTCHA: `disabled`
   - Redirect URIs: `vicare://oauth-callback/everest`

Copy the **Client ID** in the **Clients** section on the developer dashboard for the setup in Home Assistant.

{% important %}

> You have to setup the {% term integration %} from your device (phone) where you have the ViCare app installed. Otherwise, your device does not know how to handle the `vicare://` redirect URL, and you will receive an **Invalid credentials** notification and the setup procedure will fail.

Author: ```suggestion
You have to set up the {% term integration %} from your device (phone) where you have the ViCare app installed. Otherwise, your device does not know how to handle the `vicare://` redirect URL, and you will receive an **Invalid credentials** notification and the setup procedure will fail.
```

### Button

Button entities are available for triggering like a one-time charge of the water heater.

### Number

Number entities are available to adjust values like the predefined temperature for different heating programs or the heating curve shift and slope.

## Services

The following services of the [climate integration](/integrations/climate/) are provided by the ViCare integration: `set_temperature`, `set_hvac_mode`, `set_preset_mode` 

The following services of the [water_heater integration](/integrations/water_heater/) are provided by the ViCare integration: `set_temperature`

### Service `vicare.set_vicare_mode`

Set the mode for the climate device as defined by Viessmann (see [set_hvac_mode](#service-climateset_hvac_mode) for a mapping to Home Assistant Climate modes. This allows more-fine grained control of the heating modes.

| Service data attribute | Optional | Description |
| ---------------------- | -------- | ----------- |
| `entity_id` | yes | String or list of strings that point at `entity_id`'s of climate devices to control. To target all entities, use the `all` keyword instead of entity_id.

> | `vicare_mode` | no | New value of ViCare mode. For supported values, see the `vicare_modes` attribute of the climate {% term entity %}.

Author: This seems to break the table.
```suggestion
| `vicare_mode` | no | New value of ViCare mode. For supported values, see the `vicare_modes` attribute of the climate entity.
```

<img width="742" alt="Bildschirmfoto 2024-07-31 um 14 02 43" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/17ac0215-55e9-4a94-ae2f-eb6cec021d6c">

should be 

<img width="268" alt="Bildschirmfoto 2024-07-31 um 14 02 31" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/fc653bcf-3adf-49f1-ac17-1255a551a71d">

Reviewer: Right... let me look at this in a separate PR. Then we can merge this one?

Reviewer: > Right... let me look at this in a separate PR. Then we can merge this one?

took me a while.... #34046

Author: I already removed the terminology tag here to avoid the issue. I guess it's no necessary to highlight each and every term, right?

Reviewer: no, but it is now my test case https://github.com/home-assistant/home-assistant.io/pull/34049

> | `entity_id` | yes | String or list of strings that point at `entity_id`'s of climate devices to control. To target all entities, use `all` keyword instead of entity_id.
> | `hvac_mode` | no | New value of HVAC mode

Author: ```suggestion
| `entity_id` | yes | String or list of strings that point at `entity_id`'s of climate devices to control. To target all entities, use `all` keyword instead of entity_id. |
| `hvac_mode` | no | New value of HVAC mode |
```

> | `entity_id` | yes | String or list of strings that point at `entity_id`'s of climate devices to control. To target all entities, use `all` keyword instead of entity_id.
> | `preset_mode` | no | New value of preset mode.

Author: ```suggestion
| `entity_id` | yes | String or list of strings that point at `entity_id`'s of climate devices to control. To target all entities, use `all` keyword instead of entity_id. |
| `preset_mode` | no | New value of preset mode. |
```

| `entity_id` | yes | String or list of strings that point at `entity_id`'s of climate devices to control.
| `temperature` | no | New target temperature for water heater

## Troubleshooting

The ViCare API tend to loose contact with the gateway from time to time. This will be logged in Home Assistant with:

```log
Invalid data from Vicare server: {
  'viErrorId': '...',
  'statusCode': 400,
  'errorType': 'DEVICE_COMMUNICATION_ERROR',
  'message': '',
  'extendedPayload': {
    'httpStatusCode': 'NotFound',
    'code': '404',
    'reason': 'GATEWAY_OFFLINE'
  }
}
```

> Usually this resolves itself after a while, but if this state persists, try to power cycle your gateway. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Usually, this resolves itself after a while, but if this state persists, try to power cycle your gateway. 
```

> | `entity_id` | yes | String or list of strings that point at `entity_id`'s of climate devices to control.
> | `temperature` | no | New target temperature for water heater

Author: ```suggestion
| `entity_id` | yes | String or list of strings that point at `entity_id`'s of climate devices to control. |
| `temperature` | no | New target temperature for water heater |
```
